# Sales Forecasting

*The dataset for this project originates from the [Superstore Sales Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/shobanama/superstore)*
<br>

*Notebook File - [Click here](https://anaconda.org/arun2728/salesforecasting/notebook)*

## Background

In this modern times where every business is highly dependent on its data to make better decisions for developing business, time series analysis plays an important role in helping different business entities to get an idea about how good their sales are by implementing sales forecating on the historic data.

I have ultisied the dataset to perform expolratory data analysis to gain valuable insights and further apply time series analysis to get a forecast of sales after time period of 7 days.

### Problem Statement: 

Analyze the sales of the store and predict the sales of the next 7 days from the last date in the dataset.


## Dataset
The file **Superstore data.xls** contains data on **9994** entries. 

| Number of Instances | Number of Attributes | Numeric Features | Categorical Features | Missing Values |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| 9994  | 17 | 7 | 10  | Null |

### Attribute Information

1) **Row ID:** Index of the entry

2) **Order ID:** ID created when a product order is placed.

3) **Order Date:** Date on which a customer places his/her order.

4) **Ship Date:** Date on which the order is shipped.

5) **Ship Mode:** Mode of shipment of each order.

6) **Customer ID:** ID assigned to each customer who places an order.

7) **Customer Name:** Name of Customer

8) **Segment:** Section from where the order is placed

9) **Country:** Country details of this data set. We are looking only for US store data.

10) **City:** Cities of US are listed here.

11) **State:** States of US are listed here.

12) **Postal Code:** pin code

13) **Region:** Region - east, west, north, south

14) **Product ID:** Product ID of each product

15) **Category:** Category to which each product belongs to.

16) **Sub-Category:** Sub-Category of each Category

17) **Product Name:** Name of products.

18) **Sales:** Selling Price of each product.

19) **Quantity:** number of quantity available for a particular product.

20) **Discount:** Discount available on each product.

21) **Profit:** Profit gained on each product.

## Conclusion

During my research it was found that the store have highest number of Office Supplies products with total 60.3% while minimum number of Technology products (1847) i.e 18.48%. But the store have earned highest revenue of $836154 from Technology products.

The Store earn highest profit in Copiers while Selling price for Chairs and Phones is extremely high compared to other products. 
The Store earn highest profit in Copiers while Selling price for Chairs and Phones is extremely high compared to other products.  

The Total Revenue generated by all these products - $209624!

Out the total number of customers the store have 50 percent of them are consumer and they provide a highest profit of 134,119 dollor with sales of 1,161,401 dollors. Store need to work on improving profits earned on consumers

Additionally, majority of the Profitable Customers are from New York and Michigan State. The store have higher number of sales (725,457) from West region with a net profit of $ 108,418

The sales of the store keeps on increasing over time peroid now we can develop a time-series model capacble enough to predict sales and profit of the store.

Additionaly, I have build a **Seasonal-ARIMA** model to forecast the sales. And stored the predictions in model directory.

The built model is than used to predict the sales of store for next 7 days. 

According to the forecasting sales of the store will be **$ 3058.604692** on **2018-01-06**
